Okay.
So in the previous lesson, we discovered that we actually did not have a test suite for our job filter
side bar component.
So let's go ahead and add that file right now.
So in my file Explorer, I'm going to go to my tests unit directory, then components, then job results,
job filter, sidebar.
And right here, I'll create my typescript test file.
So this will be called job filter sidebar.
That test.
That's all right.
And with that, I'm going to hide the sidebar and bring the file over to my right.
And we can begin with our usual imports.
So I'll start out by importing shallow amount, and that is going to come from view test utils.
And then down below I will also import my job filter sidebar component and that is available on the
file on the left and that's going to be in the source directory components, job results, job filter,
sidebar.
And then finally the job filter sidebar component itself.
And if you see the error like this, make sure to add the dot view extension and that should make it
go away.
So the heart of this component, of course, is in the setup method and it is here that we are relying
on these two composable functions, use unique job types and use unique organizations to provide the
sets of strings that we're ultimately feeding down to these child components right here, the job filters,
sidebar checkbox group components.
So ultimately what I want to test when I shall amount this component is that this component of this
child is receiving the right values for unique values and mutation.
That's kind of the most dynamic content and the content that job filter sidebar is responsible for getting
for us in order to pass down here.
So all of that is to say, I don't think that we should use the actual composable as in our tests for
the job for the sidebar.
I think that we should mock out these two composable to have them return whatever values we want and
then validate that those are the exact same values that we are passing in right here to these two components.
So what I'm going to do is copy my import code right here because we're going to need to import these
to composable in our test suite to mock them out.
And right here, I'm going to paste that exact line right here and immediately below, I'm also going
to mark out that file.
So I replace them with the default just implementation.
So here I'm going to mark out the source directory store composable.
All right.
Make sure to store that correctly.
So now we have imported those two composable functions and replace them with just mock functions.
But as always, we're going to need to add those additional lines to make sure TypeScript recognizes
what just Mark did and make sure that it recognizes those two important functions as being of type.
Just mock.
So right here, I'm going to say convert use unique job types.
Mark I'm going to distinguish this name from the one above and that is going to be our use unique job
type's function from above.
Once again, my typing skills are not at their best today.
So there we go.
And make sure to use that as keyword and tell TypeScript to interpret this as a just to mark type down
below.
I'll do the exact same thing for it.
Use unique organizations.
So use unique organizations.
Mark And that's going to reference my use unique organizations just like function.
But now we're explicitly telling TypeScript to treat it as a just mark type.
So now it knows that it has methods.
All right.
So down below, I'm going to describe what I'm testing, which is the job filter, sidebar component.
And I'd like to begin by writing just the two test descriptions about what this component is responsible
for.
So from a user perspective, by rendering this child component, our job filter sidebar allows the user
to filter the jobs by job types, and then it also allows the user to filter the jobs by organizations.
So I'm going to write those two descriptions right here.
It allows user to filter jobs by job types.
And down below, it allows user to filter jobs by organizations.
All right.
And so, again, what we're going to do in these two tests is mount our component, then find a way
to find these smaller components and validate that we are passing them the right arguments for their
props, which is basically testing all of the configuration, verifying that we are passing the right
data down to the child.
We are going to shallow mount, so we're never going to actually fully render these components.
We're going to replace them with stubs.
But that stub is still going to have the props and the values we provide for them.
So that will be just fine.
All right.
So let's begin by using our two mocks above and providing mock return values.
Because remember, by default, even though Gest has replaced these two composable, they're going to
return undefined by default.
And we want to make that more specific.
So right here, I'm going to say use unique job types, Mark, and I'm going to call the mock return
value because this is not asynchronous.
So it's mock return value.
And just to mirror the real world implementation, I'm going to provide a set here because that's what
the real world provides.
So we're going to do a new set here and invoke that constructor and pass in an array.
And let's do two strings here full time and part time.
All right.
I'm going to do the exact same thing for my use unique organizations, Mark.
I'm going to call them mock return value method on that mock function and pass in what I want it to
return when invoked.
And once again, I'm going to do a set of strings.
So new set and we can provide the set constructor with an array of strings that will populate that set.
And for an organization here, let's do something like Airbnb.
All right.
So there we have that.
And this is basically going to stay the exact same logic for the function below or the test below.
And we'll get there in just a second.
The next thing I want to do is mount my component.
So content wrapper is going to be shallow mount and we're going to mount our job, the sidebar component.
All right.
The next step, of course, is finding this individual component.
And I'm still going to use the data test attribute, but I'm going to use a special method here instead
of using the find method.
Instead, I'm going to use the find component method.
All right.
And typically, I'm not a fan of this because Find Component knows a little bit about the implementation.
But the advantage of using find component over find is it's not just going to return the HTML underlying
the actual component, it's going to return the entire component here wrapped in its own kind of test
utils wrapper.
Basically what I'm getting to here is we need to do this so that we can ascertain the components props
because the slice of HTML that find would return is not going to have the idea of props.
Only a view component has the idea of props.
So only if we use this syntax in our test will we be able to get the actual component right here, whatever
it happens to be, and get its props.
Now notice I'm not going to explicitly look for the job filter sidebar checkbox group component.
I'm still going to leave it a little bit open ended so it can be whatever component it happens to be
that's going to have that data test attribute.
But simply by using this syntax, whatever component I happen to find, I'm going to be able to get
its props.
And that's what I wanted to verify and validate in my test.
So right here I'm going to provide a argument and it's going to be a string that looks for my data test
activity.
So right here, square brackets and let's do a data test here of job types filter.
Of course, this does not exist yet, but that's the whole point.
We're going to add it later when this test fails.
And I'm going to scientists to a concept called job types filter.
All right.
So how do we actually get the props from this job type of filter component once the view test utils
is able to find it by its data test attribute?
Well, on this wrapped component, we're going to be able to invoke a method in our test called props,
and that is going to return the complete props object where the keys or the properties are going to
be the props themselves.
In this case, it's going to be header unique values in mutation, and then the values for those keys
are going to be the exact values that we have right here.
So what I'm going to do is to structure those props from this component, right?
So right here, I'm going to say I'm going to have a header prop, a unique values prop, as well as
a mutation prop.
All right, so I'm using that ESCO structure and syntax.
Once again, the props method returns an object with however many properties it needs.
For all the props that we're passing down to this component right here, we're going to get them right
here.
And then I'm simply going to write all of my expectations.
So I'm going to expect that my header should be which string?
Well, it should be job types right here.
So I'm going to say this should be job types.
Then the next one is probably the most interesting one.
Unique values.
Remember that even though we're using kabob case right here with the dash between the E and the V,
from a JavaScript perspective and a view perspective, it's also going to be able to interpret it as
camel case.
That's the exact same way as how Vue always works.
So here, that's why we're going to be able to get unique values with camel case in the capital.
V, even though we're writing it this way right here, that's totally fine.
So right here, I'm going to say I expect unique values to be some kind of value.
And remember, unique values here is coming from unique job types, which is the return value of my
use, unique job types, composable function, which we've marked out right here to return this set
of two values.
So in other words, the prop that I pass down, it's value should equal the set.
So I'm going to copy this set right here.
And paste it in line.
We're passing down a complete set as the argument for the unique values prop.
All right.
Now, as a quick reminder, the reason why we're using to be here is because that is the preferred gest
matcher for primitives like strings, numbers or booleans.
Whenever you have a more complex object, like an object or an array or a set you should use to equal
in just otherwise the test will not pass.
So to be for primitives to equal for objects.
All right.
So that takes care of two of our props.
And our final prop is going to be the mutation right here.
So I'm going to expect my mutation, and that should be, of course, the value of this constant.
But we know the value of this constant is the exact same name or the exact same value as the name.
So this should be the string add selected job types.
All right.
So let me save this.
Let me start running our test week and we'll see how far that takes us.
Of course, our tester now failed because we do not have this data source attribute, so it's not going
to be able to find any component in our template with the stick with this characteristic and thus not
be able to extract props for him.
So right here you can see how this is missing second arguments.
It looks like we need a valid function right here.
Let's just provide a error function in line here.
See if that fixes the problem temporarily, at least enough to get our first test run.
All right, so there we go.
Cannot call the props method on an empty Vue wrapper.
That is the helper object that the view test utils wraps around the component that it finds and it is
that view wrapper object that's going to support the props method.
And obviously it's not able to call the props method on that object because it's not able to find a
value component with this data test attribute.
So let's add it right here.
In my actual implementation, I'm going to add data test and give it the value job types filter.
So whatever my test expects to find is what I'm going to add right here.
Notice, I'm not explicitly looking for this exact component.
I'm looking for this data test attribute, which gives me the flexibility to change this component to
something else in the future.
And the test should still continue to work because I'm making less dependencies.
I'm less dependent on a specific component as I am an attribute, as well as the props that it supports.
So I'm making this a little bit more flexible because I can easily swap checkbox group with another
view component as long as it takes these prompts.
All right.
Because the data source attribute will remain the same.
So it looks like our tests are passing, which is great.
Now, all I need to do is replicate this logic for my other checkbox group, and luckily our tests are
going to be very similar.
So I'm simply going to copy and paste this logic down below.
All right, so our making out and our return values can remain the same.
Our shallow amount here can remain the same as well.
Here, of course, I have to look for a different data test attribute.
So how about we make this one something like organizations filter?
There we go.
We're still going to do structure the exact same three props header, unique values and mutation, but
of course their values will be totally different.
So here instead of job types are header prop will have a value or organizations or at least it should.
If the test is verifying that we've done everything correctly for this checkbox group, we are of course
not rendering the types of jobs we're rendering the organizations here and of course, unique organizations
here is coming as the return value of the use unique organizations composable function.
We have mock that out right here to return a set of Airbnb.
So we need to make sure that we are passing that prop, that exact set.
So right here, I'm going to say that, hey, just verify that the unique values prop that is flowing
into whatever component this is has a value of a set with a string of Airbnb.
And finally, our mutation here is going to be add selected organizations.
We know that that constant is equal to the actual string that it holds.
We just add selected organizations.
Save that, let it run.
Let that run a little bit.
And of course, it's going to fail because we do not have our data just attribute.
So right here, we're going to add it.
Data test is going to be organization's dash filter.
Again, it has to match exactly what your test suite is looking for and now it's going to be able to
find this component to structure its props and verify that they are all matching here.
So it looks here like everything is working.
It allows user to filter jobs by job types and allows the user to filter jobs by organizations.
So all of these two tests are passing.
There are there are multiple assertions in each one.
But that's totally fine in this case because I still think it's testing the same functionality, the
passage of the correct props to the component.
If you wanted to break these assertions up so that it's one per test, I wouldn't mind that either.
You just might want to consolidate this set of code to some kind of helper function, or maybe a bit
for each loop.
But with that I feel pretty good about our tests for the jobs of the cyber component.
We're really testing the heart of this component, which is the rendering of these two things and the
passage of the right data from the Reliance's or the dependencies in our setup method.
The rest of this component is mostly rendering just generic HTML and CSV, which I don't really care
about.
So for me, this is the heart of the component that needs to be tested, and we've captured that in
our test.
All right.
So that's all there is to cover it in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.